# Yammer-Analytics-Research
This project is devoted to investigation of user engagement drop in Yammer. 

This project represents the conclusion of SQL Tutorial course available at MODE portal. This project encourages to demonstrate all skills acquired within the intensive SQL Tutorial. Note that MODE website (https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/sql-business-analytics-training) had an in-built portal to work with SQL commands and visualisations, therefore, the raw datasets and project working documents were not available to upload here, instead a pdf-report was prepared.

Project Overview: The project deals with 1) the investigation of an abrupt user engagement drop in Yammer. Moreover, with the help of the data, the 2) principle of the search functionality of Yammer is investigated. Apart from this, the project deals with an 3) A/B-hypothesis testing of the new features.

Business Understanding: Yammer is an attractive platform which is used in many companies for the internal professional communication. The users can raise their questions there and the colleagues can help to solve them. Moreover, it is a great place to share recent findings or project developments. Therefore, it is crucial for many companies to keep the user engagement high there and to encourage people to seek for help of colleagues or to stay up-to-date by using this portal. The research of the dataset can help the business to sort out why engagement dropped and how the new features would be accepted by the users.

Data Understanding: The data for the project consists of three tables. (1: Users. It includes one row per user with some descriptive information about that user’s account, e.g., company_id, language, state, etc. 2: Events. For each activity a user does, a new row in this table is created saving when the event happened, what was the type and name of the activity, location, device, etc. 3: E-Mail Events. This table summarizes all events which are related to E-Mails which users obtain from Yammer to their professional E-Mail addresses. This tracks if the user opens an E-Mail, clicks the link inside of it.)
All tables are related to each other in a way that each user id is present in all three tables. For the third problem (A/B-hypothesis testing), there were additional tables available which were relevant to deal specifically with that task. There were in total tens thousands of entries in the Events table, and some thousand entries in the Users table.

Modelling and Evaluation: SQL and the in-built visualisation tool of MODE were applied to deal with the project. Queries of various complexity were written in SQL to extract the necessary data. For the last problem of A/B-hypothesis testing, the general knowledge of statistical procedures was used (t-tests, p-values, etc.). More than 20 visualisations were built within the project to see explicitly what the data means.

Conclusion: The analysis has led to the following conclusions and recommendations for various teams.

1) Major issues were seen with the user engagement of those using smartphones or tablets to log in to Yammer; the product team should check what kind of updates were released in the end of July 2014 to investigate why the issues appeared. Moreover, some issue was observed with the click-through of weekly digest E-Mails in the end of July and whole August 2014; users could not get to Yammer from the weekly digest mails, giving a hint that there was some issue with the link to Yammer or the E-Mail was shown in a wrong way to a great share of users.
2) The users are usually quite satisfied with the results provided by the search_autocomplete function, but less happy with the results of the full search_run. The most obvious place to focus on is the ordering of search results. Moreover, it is important to discuss with the Product Team, what expectations they have about the portion of people using the search functions, what results the other platforms have and many other deeper factors to understand if the whole story is worth investing time in it.
3) Digging deeper into results of the A/B test it was seen that there was an approach error – all new users who joined during June 2014 were assigned to the “control group”, what distorted the results to some extent. Fixing this issue by limiting all users only to those ones, who registered before June 2014, the narrower results were obtained that showed that the new feature caused more activity among the users of the “test group” in comparison to the ones who did not have this feature in the “control group”. The suggestion would be to change the approach to conducting A/B tests by only treating people who were already active users before the test starts. Moreover, another round of the test with better assignments of people into both groups will improve the quality and trust in the test results.
